Blog Post: 18F checks in with the DAWSON project at the US Tax Court (#3629)
18F/18f.gsa.gov: _posts/2022-11-25-checking-in-on-dawson.md

---

> date: 2022-11-25

Reviewer: leaving this comment as a reminder to update the pub date once we have a pub date selected; update the filename to match

title: >
  18F Checks In With the DAWSON Project at the US Tax Court
authors:
  - chris-holly
  - mike-marcotte
  - alex-soble
  - julia-allen
  - mark-meyer
tags:
  - 18f
  - agency work
  - case management system
  - interview
  - open source
  - tax court
excerpt: >
  The United States Tax Court is an independent federal court that settles disputes between taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service. Since the 1980s, the Court has used a modified commercial software product to manage its operations. Last year the Court introduced DAWSON, a modern open-source case management system developed with assistance from an industry partner and 18F. DAWSON streamlined Court operations and changed the way the public interacts with the Court.
---

> ![The USTC DAWSON electronic case file system's homepage]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/blog/ustc-dawson-checkin/dawson-home.png)

Reviewer: 👍 👍  love the alt text!

Reviewer 2: DAWSON was launched in December 2020 -- so "last year" is incorrect

Reviewer: @JessicaMarine1, 10-4, made a suggested edit! https://github.com/18F/18f.gsa.gov/pull/3629/files#r1062848533

Reviewer: Resolved

> The United States Tax Court is an independent federal court that settles disputes between taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service. Since the 1980s, the Court has used a modified commercial software product to manage its operations. Last year the Court introduced [DAWSON](https://www.dawson.ustaxcourt.gov), a modern open-source case management system developed with assistance from an industry partner and 18F. DAWSON streamlined Court operations and changed the way the public interacts with the Court.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The United States Tax Court is an independent federal court that settles disputes between taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service. Since the 1980s, the Court has used a modified commercial software product to manage its operations. In December 2020 the Court introduced [DAWSON](https://www.dawson.ustaxcourt.gov), a modern open-source case management system developed with assistance from an industry partner and 18F. DAWSON streamlined Court operations and changed the way the public interacts with the Court.
```

**Mike Marcotte:** Managing a project that relies on open source dependencies has been challenging as some of them stop being maintained. This has forced us to consider alternatives or take on the task of maintaining the dependency ourselves. Specifically, our text editor for drafting documents is no longer supported, and we now are considering using the Court’s Microsoft Azure license to integrate Microsoft Word within the application. Thanks to feature flags, the application can easily be configured to use an alternative solution. Another dependency that is no longer supported is our React state management solution, which is a critical low-level component of the application. We decided to maintain it for now while conducting experiments with other solutions that might better fit the project in the long term.

-----

> #### Shout-out and kudos to the many, many team members at the Tax Court, 18F, and industry partners who worked on this project over the years and brought DAWSON to where it is today! :heart:

Reviewer: style tweak suggestion: let's make this plain paragraph text rather than h4, that will match the style in this sibling blog post: https://federalist-c58f58dc-a215-4616-a54c-12b5eb011096.app.cloud.gov/preview/18f/18f.gsa.gov/mgwalker/check-in-with-jerome-lee/2022/11/29/18f-checks-in-with-jerome-lee-and-the-eapd-project/

Author: Done! https://github.com/18F/18f.gsa.gov/pull/3629/commits/fdda39735b3708df440ba927cdb0e04d71fc10df
